---
title: "Crystallization kinetics of a fastest-cooling young mare basalt of Chang'E-5"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-06-13-paper
excerpt: 'This paper is about the cooling kinetics of Chang'e-5 basaltic lava flow.'
date: 2023-06-13
venue: 'Science Bulletin'
paperurl: 'http://oldkingzlwang.github.io/files/Wang2023_CSB.pdf'
citation: 'Wang Z. L., Tian W., Wang W.-R., Ma B., Liu P.-P., Pei J. L., Chen Z. Y., Wu J., Wei C. J. (2023). &quot; Crystallization kinetics of a fastest-cooling young mare basalt of Chang'E-5.&quot; <i>Science Bulletin</i>. 68: 1621-1624.'
---

**Abstract:** The crystallization kinetics of lunar magmas significantly influence the dynamics of lava emplacement and migration on the lunar surface, thereby affecting the morphology of lunar lava flows. However, few studies have correlated the textural features with cooling conditions for these basalts. Consequently, this hinders the development of an accurate emplacement model for the Chang’E-5 basalts. In this study, we present a comprehensive analysis of the petrology, mineralogy, and bulk chemistry of a basaltic clast (No. CE5C0800YJYX005GP, hereinafter referred to as 005GP), which was allocated by the China National Space Administration. The major element composition of 005GP is comparable to those of other Chang’E-5 basalts, with a bulk Mg# of 27.8 and TiO2 content of 4.79 wt% . The Na2O + K2O content of 005GP (0.94 wt%) falls within the range reported for Chang’E-5 pristine basalts (0.33 wt%–1.01 wt%, 2*σ*), but beyond the range for Chang’E-5 impact glass (0–0.39 wt%, 2*σ*), indicative of a volcanic origin. Moreover, the bulk MgO/Al2O3 and CaO/Al2O3 ratios of 005GP are similar to those of pristine basalts from Chang’E-5. Consequently, the studied basalt and other Chang’E-5 pristine basalts reported are likely derived from a single basaltic lava flow.

**Keywords:** Chang’ E-5, mare basalts, cooling kinetics, lava flow, crystal size distribution

**Citing information:** Wang Z. L., Tian W., Wang W.-R., Ma B., Liu P.-P., Pei J. L., Chen Z. Y., Wu J., Wei C. J. (2023). Crystallization kinetics of a fastest-cooling young mare basalt of Chang’E-5. *Science Bulletin*. 68: 1621-1624. DOI: [10.1016/j.scib.2023.06.036](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2023.06.036).